So to configure a port on the switch as a trunk port supporting Cisco IP phones you would do the following.
So the on a switch.
In this case the U.S. 500 I'm going to top the C'mon show the LAN switch to see villans as you can see
here we've got a default Thielen and we've got our voice the which is Bil'in to all interfaces are currently
in the native land.
In other words the default Bil'in So going into global configuration mode I can dub a command interface.
Range is zero slash one slash one up to three and then I can type the command switchboard.
Trunk encapsulation and then specify an encapsulation in the past we may have chosen ISIL or editor
or one.
Q Cisco IP phones only support one key.
So we get to specify one key that I'm going to say switchboard mode trunk to force these ports to trunk
and then switch port trunk native LAN one then I'm going to type switchboard with voice Villon and in
our case it's Violante tapping the command do show run interface if 0 1 slash 1 will chimey the running
configuration of that specific port.
I remember default commands don't show up in the running config so you won't necessarily see all the
commands we've just typed because some of them are they by default but as you can see here the port
is trunking and the voice Thielen is violent.
The problem here is that all the lands will be allowed across the sport which could potentially cause
that issue where broad costs affect the processing of Cisco IP phones.
So we should manually prune the stronger.
So I'm going to topic the on Switchfoot trunk allowed Villon and then I'm going to specify the villains
that are allowed on certain switches you might only need to specify the voice Villon but in the U.S.
500 I'm going to specify all the default villans Plus the voice villaine now topping the come on Dushka
run and the specific interface shows me that I'm only allowing the Native Land Bill and one on Ethernet
Berlanti which is my voice villain and the other default villans supported on Cisco switches.
So once again to show villans switch will allow me to see those default the lens one is the default
to Ethernet.
And then we have the villains for FDDI and Token Ring.
So that's all you can figure an interface to support trunking.
It's no longer recommended.
But if you have an older switch you may need to configure it in this way.
Last Yakutat the command show interface if 0 1 slash 1 switchboard I notice you can see here that the
Minister of is trunk the operational mode at the moment is trunk and kept selection has dropped one
key.
The native land is villaine one which is the default.
The villains enabled across this interface all one to one thousand two to 1005 the active villains at
the moment of the lens one into the voice the line is the Leonti the recommended way to implement IP
phones in a network infrastructure is to use a multiple the land access ports.
In this example we are configuring the port on the switch as an excess port but still configuring TV
lands on that port.
The phone will be in the voice Fillon and the PC will be in the data villaine tagged frame's will be
sent to the phone.
So edited are one keyframes are still used even though this is an access port untagged frames are sent
to the PC.
Now this flies in the face of what you learnt in the CC and a course in the CC and a course we learnt
then an access port belongs to a single villain that is not the case in the scenario in this scenario.
The access port has to villans configured on it.
Now there are multiple advantages to this method of implementation.
The first one is that a multivalent access port can be configured as a secure port unlike the previous
example where we configured the port as a trunk.
The voice of an ID can also be discovered through CTP or L-L DP.
So the manual configuration of villans on the phone is not required.
It also allows for scalability from an IP addressing point of view.
The issue that you may encounter in the real world is that if a glossy address has been allocated to
your PCs and let's say using 80 percent of your addresses say 80 percent of the IP addresses and that
subnet have been allocated to physical devices like PCs and now you Ed Cisco IP phones to the mix.
You're essentially doubling the amount of devices that you only have 20 percent of the IP addresses
remaining in that subnet.
So you cannot put the phones and the PC in the same subnet without redoing your IP addressing.
However if you put your phones into a separate subnet that doesnt affect the IP addressing of the PCs
so you allocate a separate subnet for IP phones and the IP subnet allocated to the PCs is left alone.
Theres also a logical separation of voice and data traffic because the phones on a separate subnet to
the PCs it's easier to implement quality of service it's easier to implement your access lists and it's
easier to implement security.
So that's a major advantage to separating the phones in the PCs into separate subnets two devices can
also be connected to a single port on the switch which minimizes cabling.
Your PC is physically connected to the phone which is physically connected to the switch across a single
cable.
However logically the phone and the PC on separate cables because they are indifferent to the lens.
But physically you saving on cabling the multiple Bil'in access port implementation tends to be the
most common in the real world and is the recommended way to implement IP phones to configure a multiple
Bil'in access port on an interface.
Do the following so on you see 500 or an off switch are going to top the C'mon show Villon switch to
see the villans configured at the moment we have Bil'in one configured on ports.
If it is 0 1 0 up to if 0 1 slash 8 no interfaces on the voice Villon I can also do the come on show
run interface if 0 1 slash 1 to show you the configuration on the interface as you can see are just
defaulted the configuration all ports are in excess VLAN 1.
So going into a global config mode and tapping the on interface range if 0 1 0 1 2 3.
In other words we are going to configure the three ports that have IP phones connected to them.
I cannot type the command switch port mode access making these ports access ports which is the default
then I can pop the command switchboard and voice Bil'in and switchboard access the LAN one now topping
the command show run interface 0 1 slash 1 shows me that that interface has been configured with a voice
VLAN.
We don't see the native land or the data then all the access to the LAN because villain 1 is the default
LAN and default configurations don't show up in the running config.
But topping the command show interface of 0 1 Section 1 switchboard allows me to see the voice and data
we learn more clearly.
So on the interface it's been configured as a static access port and is acting as a static access port.
The access to the plan is villaine one the default and notice the voice feelin is villaine too.
So even though the operational mode is steady access in other words this is acting as an access port.
We are allowing beelined one in two across this port.
The fourth way to implement IP phones is to use a 2.1.
Now it is two to p frames use the three boats in the edit to the one queue header to allow for the prioritization
of voice traffic over data traffic.
There are three beds in an editor or one key header called the costs or loss of service.
Let's talk more about these later.
Essentially editor 1 p allows for the mocking of voice traffic with a value of five in the course feel
allowing the switch to see voice traffic has higher priority than data traffic.
Now with a single villain access port using editor 1 p the interface is in a single the LAN.
So both the phone and the PC are in the land too but the phone is going to send tagged frames to the
switch.
Now because this is a standard access port the phone uses a special the land number in the edit to the
one key header to allow for the use of a through one keyframes.
Now just to recap from the CCMA course a standard Ethan at frame as a source and destination feel a
little Isa time the data and then a frame check sequence when edited or one cue is used.
A tag is inserted between the source and destination address and the length and ether taught field.
That tag consists of four bytes 16 bits is the tag protocol identifier and then the remaining 16 bits
consist of the priority code point or priority field.
The canonical format indicator and the villain ID now editor 1 p specifies the meaning of the priority
field or class of service or Crossfield the property code point field is three bits in length.
In other words the binary values are from triple 0 to triple 1 and decimal values is 0 to 7.
The high priority value the more important the traffic and thus voice will have a binary value of 1
0 1 or the equivalent decimal value or 5.
So the phone is sending a two to one keyframes to the switch on an access port with the cost field or
priority code point field set to 5.
In other words it's sending an edit to the one frame to the switch.
Now just to reiterate terminology an editor or one cue header is inserted in the Ethan at frame which
looks as follows.
Edit 2 to 1 p denotes the meaning or values of the already feel or Crossfield the value specified here
form part of the recommendations of Ada to the one P..
So once again Ed. 1 p specifies the different classes or values of the priority field in an attitude
or one queue header.
The phone is setting the value of the cost field to 5 when sending framed to the switch.
The switch therefore knows that traffic from the phone has a higher priority than traffic from the PC.
Now that explains how one can be used for quality of service.
But in this example this is an access port.
In other words it's not a trunk port.
It's an access port.
Only one villain has been configured on those Port Vila and so when sending traffic to the switch a
villain number has to be specified by the phone and a villain number used in this case is a villain.
The switch therefore knows that when it receives an editor the one Q frame with the villain number set
to zero that the phone still belongs to the villain configured on this port as the access villain.
So all traffic from the phone and the PC reside in the Leonti the phone is not in a separate Bil'in
to the PC they both belong to be Leonti.
Thus the use of the special Bil'in of zero when sending editor or one keyframes to the switch on this
access port.
So to configure EDOT 2 to 1 p on an access port you need to do the following.
So before configuring the switch or the U.S. 500.
Let's have a look at our plans.
So as you can see here all interfaces on the default end of the line one once again show run interface
if zero once one shows us that the interface has a default configuration on it.
Going into global config mode typing interface the range if 0 1 stash 1 2 3 the interfaces that have
iPhones connected to them I can type the command switch Ford mode access so these ports are not going
to be configured as trunk's they configure it as access ports switch port and voice the LAN dot one
p to specify the use of dot one on these ports.
Switch port access the land to noticed we are not specifying a voice feel the up to we are specifying
an Access Villano of T.
So once again show run interface if 0 1 once one shows me that this part is in the land too.
It's an access port but we are using edited a one p on this interface.
The phones will transmit traffic to the switch as tag frames using billons zero in the real an identifier.
Both the phone and the PC are in the land too.
That concludes Part 1 of our discussion of the Cisco on the phone startup process.
We discussed how an IP phone obtains power how Villani information is provided to the phone using CTP
or L-L DP in the next part we are going to continue the discussion by looking at how an IP phone acquires
an IP address downloads its firmware and configuration and registers with a C UCM will also discuss
the signalling protocols of skinny and SAP.
Thank you for watching.